


-----------------------
    G - Generative (Predicting what's next in the sequence)
    P - Pre Trained (Trained with tones of tones of data)
    T - Transformer

Transformer -

    a.  In 2017 google scientists publish a seminal paper called "Attention is All You need"
        and proposed a new model architecture called Transformer. The paper was about describing a particular structure
        of a kinda of data science model called Neural Network
    b.  IN 1950 Someone got an idea to build a data science model which is loosely inspired by human mind.
        That Data science model is called Neural Network.
    c.  The idea was, it's rather than one statical program it was lots of statical programs they were
        all kinda a connected to gather in some way.
    d.  Same like Human neurons, The Neural Network has a lot of little algorithms called Artificial Neurons that are
        all connected to geather. It turn out to be effective way of learn different patterns from the data..
        for example: predicting the credit score by comparing your data with lot of other people
        data in calculating credit scores.
    e.  They had a break-through work with larger Neural Networks that could take more data and be able to detect the
        patterns even more deeply. That's how Deep Neural Network or Deep Learning came.
    f.  Deep Learning which was about building these very very deep sets of these Neurons connected to geather.
        They are actually stacked on each other connected to geather and more of them they are the deeper it became.
        That's how more intelligent they became.

    |

    a.  In 2019 these google scientists came up with a new way to organise these Neurons as Neural Network.
        They came up with a new architecture.
    b.  This new architecture was specially good while handling sequences of input and being able to look back on those
        sequences and figure out what parts of theses sequences are really matter which was a type of layer this
        network called self attention layer i.e attention layer.
    c.  This idea, the layer that was able to figure out "what should I pay attention to in the input sequence".
        So this allowed them to work with much bigger Neural Networks and much bigger data sets in less time and
        scale more effectively.
    d.  THIS ARCHITECTURE IS CALLED TRANSFORMER


-----------------------
    In 2018 - OpenAI came up with their own TRANSFORMER called "GPT-1"
    2019 - GPT-2
    2020 - GPT-3
    2022 - RLHF and CHATGPT
    2023 - GPT-4
    2024 - GPT-4o


    This TRANSFORMER ARCHITECTURE has make it more effective but if this ARCHITECTURE was not there it would have
    taken much more time to come to the point where we are currently today and with much costly but we would have come
    to this point but this TRANSFORMER ARCHITECTURE made things more effective.

    Alternatives to TRANSFORMER ARCHITECTURE
    1.  State space architecture.
    2.  There are some Hybrid architectures.

-----------------------
    Before this TRANSFORMER the architecture
        a.  We used to use the most is called LSTM (LONG SHORT TERM MEMORY) which is type of recurrent Neural Network.
        b.  This LSTM is more powerful than TRANSFORMER because it has a lot of ability to deeper understanding of the
            relationship between sequence. But the issue with LSTM is parallelism it need to learn things step by step
            that made it time consuming and complicated to try to train this things.
        c.  parallelism is the game which made TRANSFORMER architecture stand out that's why the paper is name as
            "Attention is All You need" rather than doing all the complicated stuff.

-----------------------
What are Parameters -

    Let's start with the A Basic computer programming
    Input => Output

    Estimate Rent Program:
    1.  Multiply the sq.ft by 5
    2.  Multiply the floor number by 20
    3.  Add them

    These are the methods how to calculate the rent according to an expert
    We write program to take input of sq.ft and floor number => we will get rent as output

    |

    Along the way machine learning came.
    Machine learning?
        This is not by explicitly programming to do the tasks but rather learning from the data on how to do it.
    So the computer program is replaced by a model based on hypothesis.




